When I leave home to walk to school, Dad always says to me, 'Marco, keep your eyelids up And see what you can see." 
But when I tell him where I've been And what I think I've seen, He looks at me and sternly says, "Your eyesight's much too keen."

Stop telling such outlandish tales. Stop turning minnows into whales.

Now, what can I say When I get home today?

All the long way to school And all the way back, 
I've looked and I've looked And I've kept careful track, 
But all that I've noticed, Except my own feet, 
Was a horse and a wagon On Mulberry Street.

That's nothing to tell of, That won't do, of course... 
Just a broken-down wagon That's drawn by a horse. 
That can't be my story. That's only a start. 
I'll say that a ZEBRA was pulling that cart! 
And that is a story that no one can beat,
When I say that I saw it on Mulberry Street  

Yes, the zebra is fine, But I think it's a shame,
Such a marvelous beast With a cart that's so tame. 
The story would really be better to hear 
If the driver I saw were a charioteer. 
A gold and blue chariot's something to meet,
Rumbling like thunder down Mulberry Street

No, it won't do at all...
A zebra's too small.
A reindeer is better; He's fast and he's fleet,
And he'd look mighty smart On old Mulberry Street.

Hold on a minute! There's something wrong!

A reindeer hates the way it feels
To pull a thing that runs on wheels. 
He'd be much happier, instead,  
If he could pull a fancy sled.   

Hmmmm . . . A reindeer and sleigh . . .  
Say—anyone could think of that, 
А Jack or Fred ог Joe or Nat— 
Say, even Jane could think of that.

But it isn't too late to make one little change
A sleigh and an ELEPHANT! There’s something strange!
Say! That makes a story that nо one can beat,
When I say that I saw it on Mulberry Street.

But now I don't know... - It still doesn't seem right.
An elephant pulling a thing that's so light
Would whip it around in the air like a kite.
But he'd look simply grand  With a great big brass band!


A band that’s so good should have someone to hear it, 
But it's going so fast that it's hard to keep near it.
I'll put on a trailer! I know they won't mind  
If a man sits and listens while hitched on behind.

But now is it fair? Is it fair what I've done?
I'll bet those wagons weigh more than a ton.  
Thats really too heavy a load for one beast; 
I'll give him some helpers. He needs two, at least.

But now what worries me is this . .    
Mulberry Street runs into Bliss.  
Unless there's something I can fix up, 
There'll be an awful traffic mix-up!

It takes Police to do the trick,     
То guide them through where traffic's thick
It takes Police to do the trick.  
They'll never crash now. They'll race at top speed
With Sergeant Mulvaney, himself, in the lead.
The Mayor is there And the Aldermen too, 
All waving big banners Of red, white and blue.   

The Mayor is there And he thinks it is grand,
And he raises his hat As they dash by the stand.   

And that is a story that NO ONE can beat
When I say that I saw it on Mulberry Street!   

With a roar of its motor an airplane appears     
And dumps out confetti while everyone cheers  
And that makes a story that's really not bad  
But it still could be better. Suppose that I add...
I Chinaman Who eats with sticks, 
A big Magician Doing tricks... 
A ten-foot beard That needs a comb...
Not time for more, I'm almost home.

I swung 'round the corner And dashed through the gate, 
I ran up the steps And I felt simply GREAT!
    
But Dad said quite calmly, "Just draw up your stool 
And tell me the sights On the way home from school."    
There was so much to tell, I JUST COULDN'T BEGIN! 
Dad looked at me sharply and pulled at his chin. 
He frowned at me sternly from there in his seat, 
“Was there nothing to look at . . . no people to greet? 
Did nothing excite you or make your heart beat?"

FOR I HAD A STORY THAT NO ONE COULD BEAT!
AND TO THINK THAT I SAW IT ON MULBERRY STREET!

"Nothing," I said, growing red as a beet, 
"But a plain horse and wagon on Mulberry Street."   

IN THE beginning, Bartholomew Cubbins didn’t have five hundred hats. 
He had only one hat. It was an old one that had belonged to his father and 
his father’s father before him.

It was probably the oldest and the plainest hat 
in the whole Kingdom of Didd, where Bartholomew Cubbins lived. But 
Bartholomew liked it — especially because of the feather that always pointed 
straight up in the air. 


Sighed Mayzie, a lazy bird hatching an egg:
“I’m tired and I’m bored
And I’ve kinks in my leg
From sitting, just sitting here day after day.
It’s work! How I hate it!
I’d much rather play!

I’d take a vacation, fly off for a rest
If I could find someone to stay on my nest!
If I could find someone, I’d fly away-free…”
Then Horton, the Elephant, passed by her tree.

“Hello!” called the lazy bird, smiling her best,
“You’ve nothing to do and I do need a rest.
Would you like to sit on the egg in my nest?”

The elephant laughed.
“Why, of all silly things!
I haven’t feathers and I haven’t wings.
Me on your egg? Why, that doesn’t make sense…
Your egg is so small, ma’am, and I’m so immense!”

“Tut, tut,” answered Mayzie. “I know you’re not small
But I’m sure you can do it. No trouble at all.
Just sit on it softly. You’re gentle and kind.
Come, be a good fellow. I know you won’t mind.”

“I can’t,” said the elephant
“PL-E-E-ASE!” begged the bird.
“I won’t be gone long, sir. I give you my word.
I’ll hurry right back. Why, I’ll never be missed….”
“Very well,” said the elephant, “since you insist…

You want a vacation. Go fly off and take it.
I’ll sit on your egg and I’ll try not to break it.
I’ll stay and be faithful. I mean what I say.”
“Toodle-oo!” sang out Mayzie and fluttered away.

“H-m-m-m..the first thing to do,” murmured Horton,
“Let’s see…
The first thing to do is to prop up this tree
And make it much stronger. That has to be done
Before I get on it. I must weigh a ton.”

Then carefully,
Tenderly,
Gently he crept
Up the trunk to the nest where the little egg slept.
Then Horton the elephant smiled. “Now that’s that…”
And he sat
And he sat
And he sat
And he sat….

And he sat all that day
And he kept the egg warm…
And he sat all that night
Through a terrible storm.
It poured and it lightninged!
It thundered! It rumbled!
“This isn’t much fun,”
The poor elephant grumbled.

“I wish she’d come back
‘Cause I’m cold and I’m wet.
I hope that that Mayzie bird doesn’t forget.”

But Mayzie, by this time, was far beyond reach,
Enjoying the sunshine way off in the Palm Beach,
And having such fun, such a wonderful rest,
Decided she’d never go back to her nest!

So Horton kept sitting there, day after day.
And soon it was Autumn. The leaves blew away.
And then came the Winter…the snow and the sleet!
And icicles hung
From his trunk and his feet.

But Horton kept sitting, and said with a sneeze,
“I’ll stay on this egg and I won’t let it freeze.
I meant what I said
And I said what I meant…
An elephant’s faithful
One hundred per cent!”

So poor Horton sat there
The whole winter through…
And then came the springtime
With troubles anew!

His friends gathered round
And they shouted with glee.
“Look! Horton the Elephant’s up in a tree!”

They taunted, they teased him,
They yelled, “How Absurd!”
“Old Horton the Elephant
Thinks He's a bird!”

They Laughed the they Laughed, Then they all ran away.
And Horton was lonely. He wanted to play
but he sat on the egg and continued to say
“I meant what I said
And I said what I meant…
An elephant’s faithful
One hundred per cent!

“No matter What happens,
This egg must be tended!”
But poor Horton’s troubles
Were far, far from ended
For, while Horton sat there
So faithful, so kind,
Three hunters came sneaking
Up softly behind!

He heard the men’s footsteps!
He turned with a start!
Three rifles were aiming
Right strait at his heart!
Did he run?
He did not!
HORTON STAYED ON THAT NEST!
He held his head high
And he threw out his chest

And he looked at the hunters
As much as to say:
“Shoot if you must
But I won’t run away!
I meant what I said
And I said what I meant…
An elephant’s faithful
One hundred per cent!”

But the men didn’t shoot!
Much to Horton’s surprise
They dropped their three guns
And they stared with wide eyes!
“look!” they all shouted,
“Can such a thing be?
An elephant sitting on top of a tree…”

“It’s strange! It’s amazing! It’s wonderful! New!
Don’t shoot him. We’ll catch him. That’s just what we’ll do!
Let’s take him alive. Why, he’s terribly funny!
We’ll sell him back home to a circus, for money!”

And the first thing he knew, they had built a big wagon
With ropes on the front for the pullers to drag on.
They dug up his tree and they put it inside,
With Horton so sad that he practically cried.

“We’re off!” the men shouted. And off they all went
With Horton unhappy, one hundred per cent.

Up out of the jungle! Up into the sky!
Up over the mountains ten thousand feet high!
Then down, down the mountains
And down to the sea
Went the cart with the elephant,
Egg, nest and tree…

Then out of the wagon
And onto a ship!
Out over the ocean…
And ooh, what a trip!

Rolling and tossing and splashed with the spray!
And Horton said, day after day after day,
“I meant what I said
And I said what I meant…
But oh, am I seasick!
One hundred per cent!”

After bobbing around for two weeks like a cork,
They landed at last in the town of New York.

“All ashore!” the men shouted,
And down with a lurch
Went Horton the Elephant
Still on his perch,
Tied onto a board that could just scarcely hold him…
Bump!
Horton landed!
And then the men sold him!

Sold to a circus! Then week after week
They showed him to people at ten cents a peek.
They took him to Boston, to Kalamazoo,
Chicago, Weehawken and Washington, too;
To Dayton, Ohio; St. Paul, Minnesota;
To Wichita, Kansas; to Drake, North Dakota.

And everywhere thousands of folks flocked to see
And laugh at the elephant up in a tree.
Poor Horton grew sadder the farther he went,
But he said as he sat in the hot noisy tent:
“I meant what I said, and I said what I meant…
An elephant’s faithful—one hundred per cent!”

Then…one day
The circus show happened to reach
A town way down south, not so far from Palm Beach.
And, dawdling along way up high in the sky,
Who (of all people!) should chance to fly by
But that old good-for-nothing bird, runaway Mayzie!
Still on vacation and still just as lazy.

And, spying the flags and the tents just below,
She sang out, “What fun! Why, I’ll go to the show!”
And she swooped from the clouds
Through an open tent door…
“Good gracious!” gasped Mayzie,
“I’ve seen you before!”

Poor Horton looked up with his face white as chalk!
He started to speak, but before he could talk…
There rang out the noisiest ear-splitting squeaks
From the egg that he’d sat on for fifty-one weeks!

A thumping! A Bumping! A wild alive scratching!
“My egg!” Shouted Horton. “My egg! Why, it’s hatching!”

“But it’s Mine!” screamed the bird, when she heard the egg crack.
(the work was all done. Now she wanted it back.)
“It’s my egg!” she sputtered. “You stole it from me!
Get off of my nest and get out of my tree!”

Poor Horton backed down
With a sad, heavy heart…
But at that very instant, the egg burst apart!

And out of the pieces of red and white shell,
From the egg that he’d sat on so long and so well,
Horton the Elephant saw something whizz!
It had Ears
And a Tail
And a trunk just like his!

And the people came shouting, “what’s all this about…?”
They looked! And they stared with their eyes popping out!
Then they cheered and they cheered and they cheered more and more.
They’d never seen anything like it before!

“My goodness! My gracious!” they shouted. “My Word!
It’s something brand new!
It’s an elephant-bird!!

And it should be, it should be, it should be like that!
Because Horton was faithful! He sat and he sat!
He meant what he said
And he said what he meant…”
…And they sent him home
Happy,
One hundred per cent!


"Young man,” laughed the farmer,
"You're sort of a fool!
You'll never catch fish
In McElligot’s Pool!” 

“The pool is too small,
And, you might as well know it,
When people have junk
Here's the place that they throw it.
"You might catch a boot
Or you might catch a can.
You might catch a bottle,
E But listen, young man...
If you sat fifty years
With your worms and your wishes,
You'd grow a long beard
Long before you'd catch fishes!" 

“Hmmm...” answered Marco,
"It may be you're right.  I've been here three hours
Without one single bite.
There might be no fish...
"... But, again,
Well, there might!" 

"Cause you never can tell
What goes on down below!
“This pool might be bigger
Than you or I know!” 

This MIGHT bc a pool, like I've read of in books, 
Connected to one of those underground brooks! 
An underground river that starts here and flows 
Right under the pasture! And then...well, who knows? 

It might go along, down where no one can sec,
Right under State Highway Two-Hundred-and-Threc!
Right under the wagons! Right under the toes
Of Mrs. Umbroso who's hanging out clothes! 

It might keep on flowing... perhaps... who can tell?...
Right under the people in Snecden's Hotel!
Right under the grass where they're playing croquet!
Then under the mountains and far, far away! 


"This might be a river,
Now mightn't it be,
Connecting
McElligot’s
Pool
With
The
Sea!
Then maybe some fish might be swimming toward me!
(If such a thing could be, They certainly would be!) 

Some very smart fellow might point out the way
To the place where I'm fishing. And that's why I say
If I wait long enough; if I'm patient and cool,
Who knows what I'll catch in McElligot’s Pool! 

I might catch a thin fish,
I might catch a stout fish. 
I might catch a short or a long, long drawn out fish

Any kind! Any shape! Any color or size!
1 might catch some fish that would open your eyes! 

I won't be surprised if a Dog Fish appears!
Complete with a collar and long floppy cars!
Whoofing along! And perhaps he might chase
A whole lot of Catfish right straight to this place! 

I might catch a fish
With a pinwheel-like tail!
I might catch a fish
Who has fins like a sail! 


I might catch some young fish
Some high-jumping friskers.
 I might might catch catch an an old old one With long flowing whiskers! 


I might catch a fish
With a long curly nose.
1 might catch a fish
Like a rooster that crows. 

T might catch a fish
With a checkerboard belly,
Or even a fish
Made of strawberry jelly! 


I might catch a Sea Horse.
(Now mightn't I now...?) 

I might catch a fish
Who is partly a cow! 

Some fish from the Tropics, all sunburned and hot,
Might decide to swim up!
Well they might...
Might they not?
Racing up north for a chance to get cool,
Full steam ahead for McElligot's Pool! 

Some Eskimo Fish
From bcyond Hudson Bay
Might decide to swim down;
Might be headed this way!
It's a pretty long trip,
But they might
And they may. 


I might catch an ecl...
(Well, I might. It depends.)
„А long twisting cel
With a lot of strange bends
And, oddly enough,
With a head on both ends! ә
One doesn’t catch this kind of fish as a rule,
But the chances are fine in McElligot's Pool! 


I might catch a fish
With a terrible grouch... 
Or an Australian fish
With a kangaroo's pouch! 



Who wants to catch small ones like mackerel or trout! 
SAY! I'll catch a Saw Fish with such a long snout
That he needs an assistant to help him about! 
If I wait long enough, if I'm patient and cool,
Who knows what I'll catch in McElligot's Pool!

Some rough-neck old Lobster,
AII gristle and muscle,
Might grab at my bait,
Then would 1 have a tussle!
To land one so tough might take two or three hours,
But the next might be easy... 
...the kind that likes flowers


I might catch some sort of a fast-moving bloke
Who zips through the waves with an over-arm stroke!
(I might and I may and that's really no joke!) 

A fish even faster!
A fish, if you please,
Who slides down the sides
Of strange islands on skis!
He might ski on over and pay me a visit,
That's not impossible...really, now is it? 

Some Circus Fish?  
Fish from an acrobat school,
Might stage a big show in McElligor's Pool


Or I might catch a fish
From a stranger place yet!
From the world's highest river
In far-off Tibet,
Where the falls are so steep
That it's dangerous to ride ‘em,
So the fish put up chutes
And they float down beside 'em. 

From the world's deepest ocean,
From way down below,
From down in the mud where the deep-divers go,
From down in the mire and the muck and the murk,
I might catch some fish who are all going, “GLURK!” 


WHALES!
I'll catch whales!
Yes, a whole herd of whales!
All spouting their spouts
And all thrashing their tails!
I'll catch fifty whales,
Then I'll stop for the day
"Cause there's nothing that's bigger
Than whales, so they say. Still of course, it might be... 

...that there IS something bigger!
me sort of a kind of
A THING-A-MA-JIGGER!!
A fish that's so big, if you know what I mean,
That be makes a whale look like a tiny sardine!


Oh, the sea is so full of a number of fish,
If a fellow is patient, he might get his wish.

And that's why I think
That I'm not such a fool
When I sit here and fish
In McElligot's Pool! 


Up at the Lake Winna-Bango… the far northern shore… 
Lives a huge herd of moose, about sixty or more, 
And they all go around in a big happy bunch 
Looking for nice tender moose-moss to munch.

Up at the lake Winna-Bango, one day, they were lunching, 
Just strolling along and enjoying their munching… 
(For the moose-moss that day was especially fine)… 
When it happened that Thidwick, the last moose in line, 
Saw a Bingle Bug sitting. 

                            The bug called out, “Hey! 
It’s such a long road And it’s such a hot day, 
Would you mind if I rode on your horns for a way?”

“Of course not!” smiled Thidwick, the Big-Hearted Moose. 
“I’m happy my antlers can be of some use. 
There’s room there to spare, and I’m happy to share! 
Be my guest and I hope that you’re comfortable there!” 

So the Bingle Bug picked out a nice easy seat 
And the moose went on looking for moose-moss to eat.

Well… An hour or so later The bug heard a squeak, 
And he heard the small voice of a Tree Spider speak. 

“I say!” said the spider, “you’ve got a nice place! 
That moose seems quite friendly, has such a nice face… 
If I got on, too, Do you think he would mind…?”
“Hop aboard!” laughed the bug. “And I think that you’ll find
that moose won’t object. He’s the big hearted kind!” 

“I accept,” said the spider, with joy and delight.” 
And he started a web on the horn to the right.
While the spider was spinning, he heard a gay song 
and a fresh little Zinn-a- zu bird came along. 

He stopped. And he stared. And he chirped, “Well! Well! WELL! 
What a smart place to build! What a great place to dwell! 
I’ve been living on trees ever since I was born, 
but here’s something new! Why not live in a horn! 

If there’s room there for two, then there’s room there for three!” 
“There’s plenty of room!” Laughed the bug. “And it’s free!”

Thidwick stopped walking. What was all that talking? 
These guests had caught Thidwick the Moose unawares. 
“Hey!” he called out. “What goes on there upstairs?”

“Just building a nest, sir.” The Zinn-a-zu said, 
And began yanking hairs out of poor Thidwick’s head. 
And he plucked out exactly two hundred and four! 
“Don’t worry,” he laughed. “you can always grow more!”

Then he dozed off to sleep in his fine moose hair nest. 
“This bird,” murmured Thidwick “is sort of a pest! 
But I’m a good sport, so I’ll just let him rest, 
For a host, above all, must be nice to his guest.”

“Besides, now, it’s getting quite late in the day 
and surely tomorrow they’ll all go away.” 
But, alas! The next morning the suns early light
Brought to Thidwick’s sad eyes a most unwelcome sight…
“Meet my wife!” said the bird. “I was married last night. 
“And, perhaps by the way, I should mention to you 
that her uncle is coming to live with us, too. 
You’re a very fine host so I
knew you’d be willing…” Then the uncle, a woodpecker, started in drilling!
All Thidwick’s friends shouted, “GET RID OF THOSE PESTS!” 
“I would, but I can’t.” sobbed poor Thidwick. “They’re guests!” 
“Guests indeed!” his friends answered and all of them frowned. 
“If those are your guests, we don’t want you around! 
You can’t stay with us, ’cause you’re just not our sort!” 
And they all turned their backs and walked off with a snort. 
Now the big friendless moose walked alone and forlorn, 
with four great big woodpecker holes in his horn. 
“What holes!” whispered Hernan, a squirrel, who spied ’em. 
“What holes to hide nuts in! Hmmm! Mind if I tried ’em?”
“They’re yours!” called the woodpecker. “Get right inside ’em! 
This big hearted moose runs a public hotel! 
Bring your nuts! Bring your wife! Bring your children as well!” 
So the whole squirrel family all jumped on, pell mell.
And the very next thing the poor animal knew, 
a Bobcat and turtle were living there, too!
NOW what was the big-hearted moose going to do?
Well what would YOU do if it happened to YOU? 
You couldn’t say “Skat!” ’cause that wouldn’t be right. 
You couldn’t shout “Scram!” ’cause that isn’t polite. 
A host has to put up with all kinds of pests, 
for a host, above all, must be nice to his guests.
So you’d try hard to smile, and you’d try to look sweet
and you’d go right on looking for moose-moss to eat.
But now it was winter and that wasn’t easy, 
for moose-moss gets scarce when the weather gets freezy. 
The food was soon gone on the cold northern shore 
of Lake Winna-Bango. There just was no more! 
And all Thidwick’s friends swam away in a bunch
to the south of the lake where there’s moose-moss to munch. 
He watched the herd leaving. And then Thidwick knew 
he’d starve if he stayed here! He’d have to go, too!
He stepped in the water. Then, oh! What a fuss! 
“STOP!” screamed his guests. “You can’t do this to us! 
These horns are our home and you’ve no right to take 
our home to the far distant side of the lake!” 
“Be fair!” Thidwick begged, with a lump in his throat….
“We’re fair,” said the bug. “We’ll decide this by vote. 
All those in favor of going, say ‘AYE,’ 
all those in favor of staying say ‘NAY’.” 
“AYE!” shouted Thidwick, but when he was done…
“NAY!” they all yelled. He lost ’leven to one.
“We win!” screamed the guests, “by a very large score!” 
And poor, starving Thidwick climbed back on the shore. 
Then, do you know what those pests did? They asked in some more!
They asked in a fox, who jumped in from the trees, 
they asked in some mice and they asked in some fleas. 
They asked a big bear in and then, if you please, 
came a swarm of three hundred and sixty-two bees! 
Poor Thidwick sank down, with a groan, to his knees. 
And then, THEN came something that made his heart freeze.
Bullets came zinging right past Thidwick’s face!
Guns were bang-binging all over the place!
“Get that moose! Get that moose!” Thidwick heard a voice call. 
“Fire again and again and shoot straight one and all! 
We must get his head for the Harvard club wall!”
Thidwick took his heels with that load on his head! 
With five hundred pounds on his horns, the moose fled! 
He could have run faster without all those pests, 
but a host, above all, must be nice to his guests.
Up canyon! Off cliff! Over wild rocky trail! 
With bullets bang-bouncing around him like hail!
Up gully! Through gulch! And down slippery sluice, 
with his hard-hearted guests raced the soft-hearted moose!
Then finally they had him! Because of those pests, 
he had run out of luck, because of those guests 
on his horns, he was stuck! He gasped! 
He felt faint! And the whole world grew fuzzy! 
Thidwick was finished, completely… …or WAS he…?
Finished…? Not Thidwick! DECIDEDLY NOT! 
It’s true, he was in a most terrible spot,
But NOW he remembered a thing he’d forgot! 
A wonderful something that happens each year 
to the horns of all moose and the horns of all deer. 
Today was the day, Thidwick happened to know…
… That OLD horns come off so that NEW ones can grow! 
And he called to the pests on his horns as he threw ’em, 
“you wanted my horns; now you’re quite welcome to ’em!
Keep ’em! They’re yours! As of ME, I shall take 
myself to the far distant side of the lake!”
And he swam Winna-Bango and found his old bunch, 
and arrived just in time for a wonderful lunch 
at the south of the lake, where there’s moose-moss to munch.
His old horns today are where you knew they would be. 
His guests are still on them, all stuffed, as they should be. 

﻿"It’s a pretty good zoo,"
Said young Gerald McGrew, 
"And the fellow who runs it 
Seems proud of it too. 
But if I ran the zoo,"
Said young Gerald McGrew, "I’d make a few changes. That’s just what I’d do. 
The lions and tigers and that kind of stuff 
They have up here now are not quite good enough. You see things like these in any old zoo. 
They’re awfully old­fashioned. I want something new! 
So I’d open each cage, I’ll unlock every pen, Let the animals go and start over again. 
And somehow or other I think I could find 
Some beasts of some beasts of a more unusual kind. 
A four­footed lion’s not much of a beast. The one in my zoo will have 10 feet at least. 
Five legs on the left and five more on the right. 
Then people will stare, and they’ll say, 
'What a sight!' My New Zoo, McGrew Zoo, will make people talk. 
My new zoo, McGrew zoo, will make people gawk. 
They’ll be so surprised, they’ll swallow their gum. 
They’ll ask when they see my strange animals come,
'Where do you suppose he gets things like that from?'
If you want to catch beasts you don’t see every day,
You have to go places quite out of the way.
You have to go places no others can get to.
You have to get cold and you have to get wet too. 
I’ll catch 'em in caves, I’ll catch 'em in brooks, 
I’ll catch 'em in crannies, I’ll catch 'em in nooks 
That you don’t read about in geography books. 
I’ll load up five boats with a family of Joats 
Whose feet are like cows, but wear squirrel­skin coats, 
And sit like dogs, but have voices like goats— 
Excepting they can’t sing the very high notes. 
And then I’ll go down to the Wilds of Nantucket, 
And capture a family of Lunks in a bucket. 
Then people will say, 'Now I like that boy heaps. 
His New Zoo, McGrew Zoo, is growing by leaps. 
He captures them wild, he captures them meek, 
He captures them slim, he captures them sleek.
What do you suppose he will capture next week?'
In the far western part 
In southeast North Dakota Lives a very fine animal called the Iota. 
But I’ll capture one 
Who is even much finer 
In the northeastern west part of South Carolina. 
When people see him they will say, 
'Now by thunder! This New Zoo, McGrew Zoo, is really a wonder!'
I’ll bag a big bug Who is very surprising, 
A feller who has A propeller for rising 
And zooming around making cross­country hops, 
From Texas to Boston with only two stops. 
Now that kind of thing for a bug is just tops! 
In a cave in Kartoom is a beast called a Natch 
That no other hunter’s been able to catch. 
He’s hidden for years in his cave with a pout 
And no one’s been able to make him come out. 
But I’ll coax him out with a wonderful meal 
That’s cooked by my cooks in my cooker mobile. 
They’ll fix up a dish that is just to his taste; 
Three chicken croquettes made of library paste. 
Then sprinkled with peanut shucks, pickled and spiced, 
Then baked at 600 degrees and then iced. 
It’s mighty hard cooking to cook up such feasts 
But that’s how the New Zoo, McGrew Zoo, gets beasts. 
'He hunts with such vims, he hunts with such vigor. 
His new zoo, McGrew’s Zoo, gets bigger and bigger.'
Then the whole town will gasp, ‘Why this boy never sleeps! 
No keeper before ever kept what he keeps. 
There’s no telling what that young fellow will do!’ 
And then, just to show them, I’ll sail to Ka­troo 
And bring back an It­Kutch a Preep and a Proo, 
A Nerkle, a Nerd and a Seersucker too. 
'This Zookeeper, New keeper’s simply astounding.
He travels so far that you think he’d drop! 
When do you suppose this young fellow will stop?'
Stop… ? Well, I should. 
But I won’t stop until I’ve captures the Fizza­ma­Wizza­ma­Dill, 
The world's biggest bird from the Island of Gwark 
Who only eats pine trees and spits out the bark. 
And boy! When I get him back home to my park, 
The whole world will say, 
'Young McGrew’s made his mark.'

###Scrambled Egg Super

﻿On the 15th of May, in the Jungle of Nool, In the heat of the day, in the cool of the pool, He
was splashing… enjoying the jungle’s great joys… When Horton the elephant heard a small
noise.
So Horton stopped splashing. He looked toward the sound. “That’s funny,” thought Horton.
“There’s no one around.” Then he heard it again! Just a very faint yelp as if some tiny
person were calling for help. "I’ll help you," said Horton. “But who are you? Where?” He
looked and he looked. He could see nothing there but a small speck of dust blowing past
through the air.
“I say!” murmured Horton. “I’ve never heard tell of a small speck of dust that is able to yell.
So you know what I think?... Why, I think that there must be someone on top of that small
speck of dust! Some sort of a creature of very small size, too small to be seen by an
elephant’s eyes…
“… some poor little person who’s shaking with fear that he’ll blow in the pool! He has no
way to steer! I’ll just have to save him. Because, after all, a person’s a person, no matter how
small.”
So, gently, and using the greatest of care, the elephant stretched his great trunk through the
air, and he lifted the dust speck and carried it over and placed it down, safe, on a very soft
clover.
“Humpf!” humpfted a voice. ‘Twas a sour kangaroo. And the you kangaroo in her pouch said
“Humpf” too. “ Why, that speck is as small as the head of a pin. A person on that?... Why,
there never has been!”
“Believe me,” said Horton. “I tell you sincerely, my ears are quite keen and I heard him quite
clearly. I know there’s a person down there. And, what’s more, quite likely there’s two.
Even three. Even four. Quite likely…
“…a family, for all that we know! A family with children just starting to grow. So, please,”
Horton said, “as a favor to me, try not to disturb them. Just please let them be.”
“I think you’re a fool!” laughed the sour kangaroo and the young kangaroo in her pouch
said, “Me, too! You’re the biggest blame fool in the Jungle of Nool!” And the kangaroos
plunged in the cool of the pool. “What terrible splashing!” the elephant frowned. “I can’t let
my very small person get drowned!” I’ve got to protect them. I’m bigger than they.” So he
plucked up the clover and hustled away.
Through the high jungle tree tops, the news quickly spread: “He talks to a dust speck! He’s
out of his head! Just look at him walk with that speck on that flower!” And Horton walked,
worrying, almost an hour. “Should I put this speck down?...” Horton thought with alarm. “If 
I do, these small persons may come to great harm. I can’t put it down. And I won’t! After all
a person’s a person. No matter how small.”
Then Horton stopped walking. The speck-voice was talking! The voice was so faint he could
just barley hear it. “Speak up, please” said Horton. He put his ear near it. “My friend,” came
the voice, “you’re a very fine friend. You’ve helped all us folks on this dust speck no end.
You’ve saved all our houses, our ceilings and floors. You’ve saved all our churches and
grocery stores.”
“You mean…” Horton gasped, “you have buildings there, too?” “Oh, yes,” piped the voice.
“We most certainly do… “I know,” called the voice, “I’m too small to be seen but I’m mayor
of a town that is friendly and clean. Our buildings, to you, would seem terribly small but to
us, who aren’t big, they are wonderfully tall. My town is called Who-ville, for I am a Who
and we Whos are all thankful and grateful to you.” And Horton called back to the Mayor of
the town, “You’re safe now. Don’t worry. I won’t let you down.”
But, just as he spoke to the mayor of the speck, three big jungle monkeys climbed up
Horton’s neck! The Wickersham Brothers came shouting, “What rot! This elephant’s talking
to Whos who are not! There aren’t any Whos! And they don’t have a mayor! And we’re
going to stop all the nonsense! So there!”
They snatched Horton’s clover! They carried it off to a black-bottomed eagle named Vlad
Vlad-i-koff, a mighty strong eagle, of very swift wing, and they said, “Will you kindly get rid
of this thing?” And, before the poor elephant even could speak, that eagle flew off with the
flower in his beak.
All that latte afternoon and far into the night that black-bottomed bird flapped his wings in
fast flight, while Horton chased after, with groans, over stones that tattered his toenails and
battered his bones, and begged, “Please don’t harm all my little folks, who have as much
right to live as us bigger folks do!” But far, far beyond him, that eagle kept flapping and over
his shoulder called back, “Quit your yapping. I’ll fly the night through. I’m a bird. I don’t
mind it. And I’ll hide this, tomorrow, where you’ll never find it!”
And at 6:56 the next morning he did it. It sure was a terrible place that he hid it. He let that
small clover drop somewhere inside of a great patch of clovers a hundred miles wide! “Find
THAT!” sneered the bird. “But I think you will fail.” And he left with a flip of his blackbottomed
tail.
“I’ll find it!” cried Horton. “I’ll find it or bust! I SHALL find my friends on my small speck of
dust!” And clover, by clover, by clover with care he picked up and searched them, and
called, “Are you there?” But clover, by clover, by clover he found that the one that he sough
for was just not around. And by noon poor old Horton, more dead than alive, had picked,
searched, and piled up, nine thousand and five. 
Then, on through the afternoon, hour after hour… till he found them at last! On the three
millionth flower! “My friends!” cried the elephant. “Tell me! Do tell! Are you safe? Are you
sound? Are you whole? Are you well?”
From down on the speck came the voice of the mayor: “We’ve really had trouble! Much
more that our share. When that black-bottomed birdie let go and we dropped, we landed so
hard that our clocks have all stopped. Our tea-pots are broken. Our rocking-chairs smashed.
And our bicycle tired all blew up when we crashed. So, Horton, please!” pleaded that voice
of the mayor’s, “Will you stick by us Whos while we’re making repairs?” “Of course,” Horton
answered. “Of course I will stick. I’ll stick by you small folks through thin and through
thick!”
“Humpf!” Humpfed a voice! “For almost two days you’ve run wild and insisted on chatting
with persons who’ve never existed. Such carryings-on in our peaceable jungle! We’ve had
quite enough of your bellowing bungle! And I’m here to state,” snapped the big kangaroo,
“that your silly nonsensical game is all through!” And the young kangaroo in her pouch said,
“Me, too!”
“With the help of the Wickersham Brothers and dozens of Wickersham uncles and
Wickersham cousins and Wickersham in-laws, whose help I’ve engaged, you’re going to be
roped! And you’re going to be caged! And, as for our dust speck…hah! That we shall boil in
hot steaming kettle of beezle-nut oil!” “Boil it?...” gasped Horton! “Oh, that you can’t do! It’s
all full of persons! They’ll prove it to you!”
“Mr. Mayor! Mr. Mayor!” Horton called. “Mr. Mayor! You’ve got to prove now that you really
are there! So call a big meeting. Get everyone out. Make every Who holler! Make every Who
shout! Make every Who scream! If you don’t, every Who is going to end up in a beezle-nut
stew!”
And, down on the dust speck, the scared little mayor quick called a big meeting in Who-ville
Town Square. And his people cried loudly. They cried out in fear: “We are here! We are
here! We are here! We are here!”
The elephant smiled: “That was clear as a bell. You kangaroos surely heard that very well.”
“All I heard,” snapped the big kangaroo, “was the breeze, and the faint sound of wind
through the far distant trees. I heard no small voices. And you didn’t either.” And the young
kangaroo in her pouch said, “Me, neither.”
“Grab him!” they shouted. “And cage the big dope! Lasso his stomach with ten miles of rope!
Tie the knots tight so he’ll never shake loose! Then dunk that dumb speck in the beezle-nut
juice!”
Horton fought back with great vigor and vim but the Wickersham gang was too many for
him. They beat him! They mauled him! They started to haul him into his cage! But he
managed to call to the mayor: “Don’t give up! I believe in you all! A person’s a person, no 
matter how small! And you very small persons will not have to die if you make yourselves
heard! So come on, now, and TRY!”
The mayor grabbed a tom-tom. He started to smack it. And, all over Who-ville, they
whooped up a racket. They rattled tin kettles! They beat on brass pans, on garbage pail tops
and old cranberry cans! They blew on bazookas and blasted great toots on clarinets, oompahs
and boom-pahs and flutes!
Great gusts of loud racket rang high through the air. They rattled and shook the whole sky!
And the mayor called up through the howling mad hullabaloo: “Hey, Horton! How’s this? Is
our sound coming through?”
And Horton called back, “I can hear you fine. But the kangaroos’ ears aren’t as strong, quite,
as mine. They don’t hear a thing! Are you sure all your boys are doing their best? Are they
ALL making noise? Are you sure every Who down in Who-ville is working? Quick! Look
through your town! Is there anyone shirking?”
Through the town rushed the mayor from the east to the west. But everyone seemed to be
doing his best. Everyone seemed to be yapping or yipping! Everyone seemed to be beeping
or bipping! But it wasn’t enough, all this ruckus and roar! He HAD to find someone to help
him make more. He raced through each building! He searched floor-to-floor!
And, just as he felt he as getting nowhere, and almost about to give up in despair, He
suddenly burst through a door and that mayor discovered on shirker! Quite hidden away in
the Fairfax Apartments (Apartment 12-J) a very small, very small shirker named Jo-Jo was
standing, and bouncing a Yo-Yo! Not making a sound! Not a yipp! Not a chirp! And the
mayor rushed inside and he greabbed the young twerp!
And he climbed with the lad up the Eiffelberg Tower. “This,” cried the mayor, “is your
town’s darkest hour! The time for all Whos who have blood that is red to come to the aid of
their country!” he said. “We’ve GOT to make noises in greater amounts! So, open your
mouth, lad! For every voice counts!” Thus he spoke as he climbed. When they got to the top,
the lad cleared his throat and he shouted out, “Yopp!”
And that Yopp… That one small extra Yopp put it over! Finally, at last! From that speck on
that clover their voices were heard! They rang out clear and clean. And the elephant smiled.
“Do you see what I mean?... They’ve proved they ARE persons, not matter how small. And
their whole world was saved by the Smallest of ALL!” “How true! Yes, how true,” said the
big kangaroo. “And, from now on, you know what I’m planning to do?... From now on, I’m
going to protect them with you!” And the young kangaroo in her pouch said,…
“…ME, TOO! From sun in the summer. From rain when it’s fall-ish, I’m going to protect
them. No matter how small-ish!


####ON BEYOND ZEBRA

####IF I RAN THE CIRCUS

The sun did not shine.
It was too wet to play.
So we sat in the house
All that cold, cold, wet day.

I sat there with Sally.
We sat there, we two.
And I said, "How I wish
We had something to do!"

Too wet to go out
And too cold to play ball.
So we sat in the house.
We did nothing at all.

So all we could do was to

Sit!
Sit!
Sit!
Sit!

And we did not like it.
Not one little bit.

BUMP!

And then
something went BUMP!
How that bump made us jump!

We looked!
Then we saw him step in on the mat!
We looked!
And we saw him!
The Cat in the Hat!
And he said to us,
"Why do you sit there like that?"
"I know it is wet
And the sun is not sunny.
But we can have
Lots of good fun that is funny!"

"I know some good games we could play,"
Said the cat.
"I know some new tricks,"
Said the Cat in the Hat.
"A lot of good tricks.
I will show them to you.
Your mother
Will not mind at all if I do."

Then Sally and I
Did not know what to say.
Our mother was out of the house
For the day.

But our fish said, "No! No!
Make that cat go away!
Tell that Cat in the Hat
You do NOT want to play.
He should not be here.
He should not be about.
He should not be here
When your mother is out!"

"Now! Now! Have no fear.
Have no fear!" said the cat.
"My tricks are not bad,"
Said the Cat in the Hat.
"Why, we can have
Lots of good fun, if you wish,
with a game that I call
UP-UP-UP with a fish!"

"Put me down!" said the fish.
"This is no fun at all!
Put me down!" said the fish.
"I do NOT wish to fall!"

"Have no fear!" said the cat.
"I will not let you fall.
I will hold you up high
As I stand on a ball.
With a book on one hand!
And a cup on my hat!
But that is not ALL I can do!"
Said the cat...

"Look at me!
Look at me now!" said the cat.
"With a cup and a cake
On the top of my hat!
I can hold up TWO books!
I can hold up the fish!
And a litte toy ship!
And some milk on a dish!
And look!
I can hop up and down on the ball!
But that is not all!
Oh, no.
That is not all...

"Look at me!
Look at me!
Look at me NOW!
It is fun to have fun
But you have to know how.
I can hold up the cup
And the milk and the cake!
I can hold up these books!
And the fish on a rake!
I can hold the toy ship
And a little toy man!
And look! With my tail
I can hold a red fan!
I can fan with the fan
As I hop on the ball!
But that is not all.
Oh, no.
That is not all...."

That is what the cat said...
Then he fell on his head!
He came down with a bump
From up there on the ball.
And Sally and I,
We saw ALL the things fall!

And our fish came down, too.
He fell into a pot!
He said, "Do I like this?"
Oh, no! I do not.
This is not a good game,"
Said our fish as he lit.
"No, I do not like it,
Not one little bit!"

"Now look what you did!"
Said the fish to the cat.
"Now look at this house!
Look at this! Look at that!
You sank our toy ship,
Sank it deep in the cake.
You shook up our house
And you bent our new rake.
You SHOULD NOT be here
When our mother is not.
You get out of this house!"
Said the fish in the pot.

"But I like to be here.
Oh, I like it a lot!"
Said the Cat in the Hat
To the fish in the pot.
"I will NOT go away.
I do NOT wish to go!
And so," said the Cat in the Hat,

"So
so
so...

I will show you
Another good game that I know!"
And then he ran out.
And, then, fast as a fox,
The Cat in the Hat
Came back in with a box.
A big red wood box.
It was shut with a hook.
"Now look at this trick,"
Said the cat.
"Take a look!"

Then he got up on top
With a tip of his hat.
"I call this game FUN-IN-A-BOX,"
Said the cat.
"In this box are two things
I will show to you now.
You will like these two things,"
Said the cat with a bow.

"I will pick up the hook.
You will see something new.
Two things. And I call them
Thing One and Thing Two.
These Things will not bite you.
They want to have fun."
Then, out of the box
Came Thing Two and Thing One!
And they ran to us fast.
They said, "How do you do?
Would you like to shake hands
With Thing One and Thing Two?"

And Sally and I
Did not know what to do.
So we had to shake hands
With Thing One and Thing Two.
We shook their two hands.
But our fish said, "No! No!
Those Things should not be
In this house! Make them go!
"They should not be here
When your mother is not!
Put them out! Put them out!"
Said the fish in the pot.

"Have no fear, little fish,"
Said the Cat in the Hat.
"These Things are good Things."
And he gave them a pat.
"They are tame. Oh, so tame!
They have come here to play.
They will give you some fun
On this wet, wet, wet day."

"Now, here is a game that they like,"
Said the cat.
"They like to fly kites,"
Said the Cat in the Hat

"No! Not in the house!"
Said the fish in the pot.
"They should not fly kites
In a house! They should not.
Oh, the things they will bump!
Oh, the things they will hit!
Oh, I do not like it!
Not one little bit!" Then Sally and I
Saw them run down the hall.
We saw those two Things
Bump their kites on the wall!
Bump! Thump! Thump! Bump!
Down the wall in the hall.

Thing Two and Thing One!
They ran up! They ran down!
On the string of one kite
We saw Mother's new gown!
Her gown with the dots
That are pink, white and red.
Then we saw one kite bump
On the head of her bed!

Then those Things ran about
With big bumps, jumps and kicks
And with hops and big thumps
And all kinds of bad tricks.
And I said,
"I do NOT like the way that they play
If Mother could see this,
Oh, what would she say!"

Then our fish said, "Look! Look!"
And our fish shook with fear.
"Your mother is on her way home!
Do you hear?
Oh, what will she do to us?
What will she say?
Oh, she will not like it
To find us this way!"

"So, DO something! Fast!" said the fish.
"Do you hear!
I saw her. Your mother!
Your mother is near!
So, as fast as you can,
Think of something to do!
You will have to get rid of
Thing One and Thing Two!"

So, as fast as I could,
I went after my net.
And I said, "With my net
I can get them I bet.
I bet, with my net,
I can get those Things yet!"

Then I let down my net.
It came down with a PLOP!
And I had them! At last!
Thoe two Things had to stop.
Then I said to the cat,
"Now you do as I say.
You pack up those Things
And you take them away!"

"Oh dear!" said the cat,
"You did not like our game...
Oh dear.

What a shame!
What a shame!
What a shame!"

Then he shut up the Things
In the box with the hook.
And the cat went away
With a sad kind of look.

"That is good," said the fish.
"He has gone away. Yes.
But your mother will come.
She will find this big mess!
And this mess is so big
And so deep and so tall,
We ca not pick it up.
There is no way at all!"

And THEN!
Who was back in the house?
Why, the cat!
"Have no fear of this mess,"
Said the Cat in the Hat.
"I always pick up all my playthings
And so...
I will show you another
Good trick that I know!"

Then we saw him pick up
All the things that were down.
He picked up the cake,
And the rake, and the gown,
And the milk, and the strings,
And the books, and the dish,
And the fan, and the cup,
And the ship, and the fish.
And he put them away.
Then he said, "That is that."
And then he was gone
With a tip of his hat.

Then our mother came in
And she said to us two,
"Did you have any fun?
Tell me. What did you do?"

And Sally and I did not know
What to say.
Should we tell her
The things that went on there that day?

Should we tell her about it?
Now, what SHOULD we do?
Well...
What would YOU do
If your mother asked YOU?


Every Who Down in Whoville Liked Christmas a lot...
But the Grinch,Who lived just north of Whoville, Did NOT!
The Grinch hated Christmas! The whole Christmas season!
Now, please don't ask why. No one quite knows the reason.
It could be his head wasn't screwed on just right.
It could be, perhaps, that his shoes were too tight.
But I think that the most likely reason of all,
May have been that his heart was two sizes too small.
Whatever the reason, His heart or his shoes,
He stood there on Christmas Eve, hating the Whos,
Staring down from his cave with a sour, Grinchy frown,
At the warm lighted windows below in their town.
For he knew every Who down in Whoville beneath,
Was busy now, hanging a mistletoe wreath.
"And they're hanging their stockings!" he snarled with a sneer,
"Tomorrow is Christmas! It's practically here!"
Then he growled, with his Grinch fingers nervously drumming,
"I MUST find some way to stop Christmas from coming!"
For Tomorrow, he knew, all the Who girls and boys,
Would wake bright and early. They'd rush for their toys!
And then! Oh, the noise! Oh, the Noise!
Noise! Noise! Noise!
That's one thing he hated! The NOISE!
NOISE! NOISE! NOISE!
Then the Whos, young and old, would sit down to a feast.
And they'd feast! And they'd feast! And they'd FEAST!
FEAST! FEAST! FEAST!
They would feast on Who-pudding, and rare Who-roast beast.
Which was something the Grinch couldn't stand in the least!
And THEN They'd do something He liked least of all!
Every Who down in Whoville, the tall and the small,
Would stand close together, with Christmas bells ringing.
They'd stand hand-in-hand. And the Whos would start singing!
They'd sing! And they'd sing! And they'd SING!
SING! SING! SING!
And the more the Grinch thought of this Who ChristmasSing,
The more the Grinch thought, "I must stop this whole thing!"
"Why, for fifty-three years I've put up with it now!"
"I MUST stop this Christmas from coming! But HOW?"
Then he got an idea! An awful idea!
THE GRINCH GOT A WONDERFUL, AWFUL IDEA!
"I know just what to do!" The Grinch laughed in his throat.
And he made a quick Santy Claus hat and a coat.
And he chuckled, and clucked, "What a great Grinchy trick!"
"With this coat and this hat, I look just like Saint Nick!"
"All I need is a reindeer..." The Grinch looked around.
But, since reindeer are scarce, there was none to be found.
Did that stop the old Grinch? No! The Grinch simply said,
"If I can't find a reindeer, I'll make one instead!"
So he called his dog, Max. Then he took some red thread,
And he tied a big horn on the top of his head.
THEN He loaded some bags And some old empty sacks,
On a ramshackle sleigh And he hitched up old Max.
Then the Grinch said, "Giddap!" And the sleigh started down,
Toward the homes where the Whos Lay asnooze in their town.
All their windows were dark. Quiet snow filled the air.
All the Whos were all dreaming sweet dreams without care.
When he came to the first little house on the square.
"This is stop number one," the old Grinchy Claus hissed,
And he climbed to the roof, empty bags in his fist.
Then he slid down the chimney. A rather tight pinch.
But, if Santa could do it, then so could the Grinch.
He got stuck only once, for a moment or two.
Then he stuck his head out of the fireplace flue.
Where the little Who stockings all hung in a row.
"These stockings," he grinned, "are the first things to go!"
Then he slithered and slunk, with a smile most unpleasant,
Around the whole room, and he took every present!
Pop guns! And bicycles! Roller skates! Drums!
Checkerboards! Tricycles! Popcorn! And plums!
And he stuffed them in bags. Then the Grinch, very nimbly,
Stuffed all the bags, one by one, up the chimney!
Then he slunk to the icebox. He took the Whos' feast!
He took the Who-pudding! He took the roast beast!
He cleaned out that icebox as quick as a flash.
Why, that Grinch even took their last can of Who-hash!
Then he stuffed all the food up the chimney with glee.
"And NOW!" grinned the Grinch, "I will stuff up the tree!"
And the Grinch grabbed the tree, and he started to shove,
When he heard a small sound like the coo of a dove.
He turned around fast, and he saw a small Who!
Little Cindy-Lou Who, who was not more than two.
The Grinch had been caught by this tiny Who daughter,
Who'd got out of bed for a cup of cold water.
She stared at the Grinch and said, "Santy Claus, why, 
"Why are you taking our Christmas tree? WHY?"
But, you know, that old Grinch was so smart and so slick,
He thought up a lie, and he thought it up quick!
"Why, my sweet little tot," the fake Santy Claus lied,
"There's a light on this tree that won't light on one side."
"So I'm taking it home to my workshop, my dear."
"I'll fix it up there. Then I'll bring it back here."
And his fib fooled the child. Then he patted her head,
And he got her a drink and he sent her to bed.
And when CindyLou Who went to bed with her cup,
HE went to the chimney and stuffed the tree up!
Then the last thing he took Was the log for their fire!
Then he went up the chimney, himself, the old liar.
On their walls he left nothing but hooks and some wire.
And the one speck of food That he left in the house,
Was a crumb that was even too small for a mouse.
Then He did the same thing To the other Whos' houses
Leaving crumbs Much too small For the other Whos' mouses!
It was quarter past dawn... All the Whos, still a-bed,
All the Whos, still asnooze When he packed up his sled,
Packed it up with their presents! The ribbons! The wrappings!
The tags! And the tinsel! The trimmings! The trappings!
Three thousand feet up! Up the side of Mt. Crumpit,
He rode with his load to the tiptop to dump it!
"PoohPooh to the Whos!" he was grinchishly humming.
"They're finding out now that no Christmas is coming!"
"They're just waking up! I know just what they'll do!"
"Their mouths will hang open a minute or two,
Then the Whos down in Whoville will all cry BooHoo!"
"That's a noise," grinned the Grinch, "That I simply MUST hear!"
So he paused. And the Grinch put his hand to his ear.
And he did hear a sound rising over the snow.
It started in low. Then it started to grow.
But the sound wasn't sad! Why, this sound sounded merry!
It couldn't be so! But it WAS merry! VERY!
He stared down at Whoville! The Grinch popped his eyes!
Then he shook! What he saw was a shocking surprise!
Every Who down in Whoville, the tall and the small,
Was singing! Without any presents at all!
He HADN'T stopped Christmas from coming! IT CAME!
Somehow or other, it came just the same!
And the Grinch, with his grinch-feet ice-cold in the snow,
Stood puzzling and puzzling: "How could it be so?"
"It came with out ribbons! It came without tags!"
"It came without packages, boxes or bags!"
And he puzzled three hours, till his puzzler was sore.
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before!
"Maybe Christmas," he thought, "doesn't come from a store."
"Maybe Christmas...perhaps...means a little bit more!"
And what happened then? Well...in Whoville they say,
That the Grinch's small heart Grew three sizes that day!
And the minute his heart didn't feel quite so tight,
He whizzed with his load through the bright morning light,
And he brought back the toys! And the food for the feast!
And he, HE HIMSELF! The Grinch carved the roast beast!


###YERTLE THE TURTLE


###THE CAT IN THE HAT COMES BACK

###HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU

One fish, Two fish, Red fish, Blue fish,
Black fish, Blue fish, Old fish, New fish.
This one has a littlecar.
This one has a little star.
Say! What a lot of fish there are.
Yes. Some are red, and some are blue.
Some are old and some are new.
Some are sad, and some are glad,
And some are very, very bad.
Why are they sad and glad and bad?
I do not know, go ask your dad.
Some are thin, and some are fat.
The fat one has a yellow hat.
From there to here,
From here to there,
Funny things are everywhere.
Here are some who like to run.
They run for fun in the hot, hot sun.
Oh me! Oh my! Oh me! oh my!
What a lot of funny things go by.
Some have two feet and some have four.
Some have six feet and some have more.
Where do they come from? I can't say.
But I bet they have come a long, long way.
we see them come, we see them go.
Some are fast. Some are slow.
Some are high. Some are low.
Not one of them is like another.
Don't ask us why, go ask your mother.

Say! Look at his fingers!
One, two, three...
How many fingers do I see?
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
He has eleven!
Eleven! This is something new.
I wish I had eleven too!

Bump! Bump! Bump!
Did you ever ride a Wump?
We have a Wump with just one hump.
But we know a man called Mr. Gump.
Mr. gump has a seven hump Wump. So...
If you like to go Bump! Bump!
Just jump on the hump of the Wump of Gump

Who am I? My name is Ned
I do not like my little bed.
This is no good. This is not right.
My feet stick out of bed all night.
And when I pull them in, Oh, Dear!
My head sticks out of bed up here!

We like our bike. It is made for three.
Our Mike sits up in back, you see.
We like our Mike, and this is why:
Mike does all the work when the hills get high.

Hello there, Ned. How do you do?
Tell me, tell me what is new?
How are things in your little bed?
What is new? Please tell me Ned.
I do not like this bed at all.
a lot of things have come to call.
A cow, a dog, a cat, a mouse.
Oh! What a bed! Oh! What a house!

Oh dear, oh dear! I cannot hear.
Will you please come over near?
Will you please look in my ear?
There must be something there, I fear.
Say look! A bird was in your ear.
But he is out. So have no fear.
Again your ear can hear, my dear.

My hat is old, my teeth are gold.
I have a bird I like to hold.
My shoe is off, my foot is cold.
My shoe is off, my foot is cold.
I have a bird I like to hold.
My hat is old, my teeth are gold.
And now my story is all told.

We took a look. We saw a Nook.
On his head he had a hook.
On his hook he had a book.
On his book was "How to Cook"
We saw him sit and try to cook
But a Nook can't read, so a Nook can't Cook.
SO...
What good to a Nook is a hook cook book?

the moon was out and we saw some sheep.
We saw some sheep take a walk in their sleep.
by the light of the moon, by the light of a star;
They walked all night from near to far.
I would never walk. I would take a car.

I do not like this one so well.
all he does is yell, yell, yell.
I will not have this one about.
When he comes in I put him out.
This one is quiet as a mouse.
I like to have him in the house.

At our house we open cans.
We have to open many cans.
and that is why we have a Zans.
A Zans for cans is very good.
Have you a Zans for cans? You should.

I like to box. How I like to box.
So every day I box a Gox.
In yellow socks I box my Gox.
I box in yellow Gox box socks.

It is fun to sing if you sing with a Ying.
My Ying can sing like anything.
I sing high and my Ying sings low.
And we are not too bad, you know.

this one, I think, is called a Yink.
he likes to wink, he likes to drink.
He likes to drink, and drink, and drink.
the thing he likes to drink is ink.
The ink he likes to drink is pink.
He likes to wink and drink pink ink.
SO...
If you have a lot of ink,
you should get a Yink, I think.

Hop, hop, hop! I am a Yop
All I like to do is hop,
From finger top to finger top.
I hop from left to right and then...
Hop, hop! I hop right back again.
I like to hop all day and night.
From right to left and left to right.
Why do I like to hop, hop, hop?
I do not know. Go ask your Pop.

Brush, brush, brush, brush
Comb, comb, comb, comb
Blue hair is fun to brush and comb.
All girls who like to brush and comb,
Should have a pet like this at home.

Who is this pet? Say! He is wet.
You never yet met a pet, I bet,
As wet as they let this wet pet get.

Did you ever fly a kite in bed?
did you ever walk with ten cats on your head?
Did you ever milk this kind of cow?
Well, we can do it. We know how.
If you never did, you should.
These things are fun, and fun is good.

Hello, hello. Are you there?
Hello! I called you up to say hello.
I said Hello.
Can you hear me, Joe?
Oh no, I cannot hear your call.
I cannot hear your call at all.
This is not good, and I know why.
A mouse has cut the wire, goodbye!

From near to far, from here to there,
Funny things are everywhere.
These yellow pets are called the Zeds.
They have one hair upon their heads.
Their hair grows fast. So fast they say,
They need a haircut every day.

Who am I? My name is Ish
On my hand I have a dish.
I have this dish to help me wish.
When I wish to make a wish
I wave my hand with a big swish swish.
Then I say, "I wish for fish!"
And I get fish right on my dish.
So...
If you wish to make a wish,
you may swish for fish with my Ish wish dish.

At our house we play out back.
We play a game called ring the Gack.
Would you like to play this game?
Come down! We have the only Gack in town.

Look what we found in the park in the dark.
We will take him home, we will call him Clark.
He will live at our house, he will grow and grow.
Will our mother like this? We don't know.

And now, Good night.
It is time to sleep
So we will sleep with our pet Zeep.
Today is gone. Today was fun.
Tomorrow is another one.
Every day, from here to there.
funny things are everywhere.




I am Sam

I am Sam
Sam I am

That Sam-I-am
That Sam-I-am!
I do not like
that Sam-I-am

Do you like
green eggs and ham

I do not like them,
Sam-I-am.
I do not like
green eggs and ham.

Would you like them
Here or there?

I would not like them
here or there.
I would not like them
anywhere.
I do not like
green eggs and ham.
I do not like them,
Sam-I-am

Would you like them
in a house?
Would you like them
with a mouse?

I do not like them
in a house.
I do not like them
with a mouse.
I do not like them
here or there.
I do not like them
anywhere.
I do not like green eggs and ham.
I do not like them, Sam-I-am.


Would you eat them
in a box?
Would you eat them
with a fox?

Not in a box.
Not with a fox.
Not in a house.
Not with a mouse.
I would not eat them here or there.
I would not eat them anywhere.
I would not eat green eggs and ham.
I do not like them, Sam-I-am.

Would you? Could you?
in a car?
Eat them! Eat them!
Here they are.

I would not ,
could not,
in a car

You may like them.
You will see.
You may like them
in a tree?
d not in a tree.
I would not, could not in a tree.
Not in a car! You let me be.

I do not like them in a box.
I do not like them with a fox
I do not like them in a house
I do mot like them with a mouse
I do not like them here or there.
I do not like them anywhere.
I do not like green eggs and ham.
I do not like them, Sam-I-am.

A train! A train!
A train! A train!
Could you, would you
on a train?

Not on a train! Not in a tree!
Not in a car! Sam! Let me be!
I would not, could not, in a box.
I could not, would not, with a fox.
I will not eat them with a mouse
I will not eat them in a house.
I will not eat them here or there.
I will not eat them anywhere.
I do not like them, Sam-I-am.


Say!
In the dark?
Here in the dark!
Would you, could you, in the dark?

I would not, could not,
in the dark.

Would you, could you,
in the rain?

I would not, could not, in the rain.
Not in the dark. Not on a train,
Not in a car, Not in a tree.
I do not like them, Sam, you see.
Not in a house. Not in a box.
Not with a mouse. Not with a fox.
I will not eat them here or there.
I do not like them anywhere!

You do not like
green eggs and ham?

I do not
like them,
Sam-I-am.

Could you, would you,
with a goat?

I would not,
could not.
with a goat!

Would you, could you,
on a boat?

I could not, would not, on a boat.
I will not, will not, with a goat.
I will not eat them in the rain.
I will not eat them on a train.
Not in the dark! Not in a tree!
Not in a car! You let me be!
I do not like them in a box.
I do not like them with a fox.
I will not eat them in a house.
I do not like them with a mouse.
I do not like them here or there.
I do not like them ANYWHERE!

I do not like
green eggs
and ham!

I do not like them,
Sam-I-am.

You do not like them.
SO you say.
Try them! Try them!
And you may.
Try them and you may I say.

Sam!
If you will let me be,
I will try them.
You will see.

Say!
I like green eggs and ham!
I do!! I like them, Sam-I-am!
And I would eat them in a boat!
And I would eat them with a goat...
And I will eat them in the rain.
And in the dark. And on a train.
And in a car. And in a tree.
They are so good so good you see!

So I will eat them in a box.
And I will eat them with a fox.
And I will eat them in a house.
And I will eat them with a mouse.
And I will eat them here and there.
Say! I will eat them ANYWHERE!

I do so like
green eggs and ham!
Thank you!
Thank you,
Sam-I-am



Now, the Star-Belly Sneetches-

Had bellies with stars.

The Plain-Belly Sneetches-Had none upon thars.  

Those stars weren’t so big. They were really so small.

You might think such a thing wouldn’t matter at all. 

But, because they had stars, all the Star-Belly Sneetches

Would brag, “We’re the best kind of Sneetch on the beaches.

With their snoots in the air, they would sniff and they’d snort

“We’ll have nothing to do with the Plain-Belly sort!”

And whenever they met some, when they were out walking,

They’d hike right on past them without even talking.  

When the Star-Belly children went out to play ball,

Could a Plain- Belly get in the game…? Not at all.

You only could play if your bellies had stars

And the Plain-Belly children had none upon thars. 

When the Star-Belly Sneetches had frankfurter roasts

Or picnics or parties or marshmallow toasts,

They never invited the Plain-Belly Sneetches.

They left them out cold, in the dark of the beaches.

They kept them away. Never let them come near.

And that’s how they treated them year after year. 

Then ONE day, seems…while the Plain-Belly Sneetches

Were moping and doping alone on the beaches,

Just sitting there wishing their bellies had stars…

A stranger zipped up in the strangest of cars! 

 

“My friends,” he announced in a voice clear and keen,

“My name is Sylvester McMonkey McBean.

And I’ve heard of your troubles. I’ve heard you’re unhappy.

But I can fix that. I’m the Fix-it-Up Chappie.

I’ve come here to help you. I have what you need.

And my prices are low. And I work at great speed.

And my work is one hundred per cent guaranteed! 

 

Then, quickly Sylvester McMonkey McBean

Put together a very peculiar machine.

And he said, “You want stars like a Star-Belly Sneetch…?

My friends, you can have them for three dollars each!” 

“Just pay me your money and hop right aboard!”

So they clambered inside. Then the big machine roared

And it klonked. And it bonked. And it jerked. And it berked

And it bopped them about. But the thing really worked!

When the Plain-Belly Sneetches popped out, they had stars!

They actually did. They had stars upon thars! 

Then they yelled at the ones who had stars at the start,

“We’re exactly like you! You can’t tell us apart.

We’re all just the same, now, you snooty old smarties!

And now we can go to your frankfurter parties.” 

“Good grief!” groaned the ones who had stars at the first.

“We’re still the best Sneetches and they are the worst.

But, now, how in the world will we know,” they all frowned,

“If which kind is what, or the other way round?” 

Then came  McBean with a very sly wink.

And he said, “Things are not quite as bad as you think.

So you don’t know who’s who. That is perfectly true.

But come with me, friends. Do you know what I’ll do?

I’ll make you, again, the best Sneetches on beaches

And all it will cost you is ten dollars eaches.” 

“Belly stars are no longer in style,” said McBean.

“What you need is a trip through my Star-off Machine.

This wondrous contraption will take off your stars

So you won’t look like Sneetches who have them on thars.”

And that handy machine Working very precisely

Removed all the stars from their tummies quite nicely. 

Then, with snoots in the air, they paraded about

And they opened their beaks and they let out a shout,

“We know who is who! Now there isn’t a doubt.

The best kind of Sneetches are Sneetches without!” 

Then, of course, those with stars all got frightfully mad.

To be wearing a star now was frightfully bad.

Then, of course, old Sylvester McMonkey McBean

Invited them into his star-off machine. 

Then, of course from THEN on, as you probably guess,

Things really got into a horrible mess.

All the rest of that day, on those wild screaming beaches,

The fix-it-up Chappie kept fixing up Sneetches.

Off again! On Again!  In again! Out again!

Through the machines they raced round and about again,

Changing their stars every minute or two.

They kept paying money. They kept running through

Until neither the Plain nor the Star-Bellies knew

Whether this one was that one…or that one was this one

Or which one was what one …or what one was who. 

Then, when every last cent

Of their money was spent,

The Fix-it-Up Chappie packed up

And he went. 

And he laughed as he drove

In his car up the beach,

“They never will learn.

No. You can’t teach a Sneetch!” 

But McBean was quite wrong. I’m quite happy to say

That the Sneetches got really quite smart on that day,

The day they decided that Sneetches are Sneetches

And no kind of Sneetch is the best on the beaches

That day, all the Sneetches forgot about stars

And whether they had one, or not, upon thars.


###XACKS

####TO MANY DAVES
###WHAT WAS I SCARED OF


###DR SUESS SLEEP BOOK

####DR SEUSS ABCS


UP PUP Pup is up.
CUP PUP Pup in cup.
PUP CUP Cup on pup.
MOUSE HOUSE Mouse on house.
HOUSE MOUSE House on mouse.
ALL TALL We all are tall.
ALL SMALL We all are small.
ALL BALL We all play ball.
BALL WALL Up on a wall.
ALL FALL Fall off the wall.
DAY PLAY We play all day.
NIGHT FIGHT We fight all night.HE ME He is after me.
HIM JIM Jim is after him.
SEE BEE We see a bee.
SEE BEE THREE Now we see three.
THREE TREE Three fish in a tree.
Fish in a tree? How can that be?
RED RED They call me Red.
RED BED I am in bed.
RED NED TED and ED in BED
PAT PAT they call him Pat.
PAT SAT Pat sat on hat.
PAT CAT Pat sat on cat.
PAT BAT Pat sat on bat.
NO PAT NO Don’t sit on that.
SAD DAD BAD HAD Dad is sad.
Very, very sad.
He had a bad day. What a day Dad had!
THING THING What is that thing?THING SING That thing can sing!
SONG LONG A long, long song.
Good-by, Thing. You sing too long.
WALK WALK We like to walk.
WALK TALK We like to talk.
HOP POP We like to hop.
We like to hop on top of Pop.
STOP You must not hop on Pop.
Mr. BROWN Mrs. BROWN
Mr. Brown upside down.
Pup up. Brown down.
Pup is down. Where is Brown?
WHERE IS BROWN? THERE IS BROWN!
Mr. Brown is out of town.
BACK BLACK Brown came back.Brown came back with Mr. Black.
SNACK SNACK Eat a snack.
Eat a snack with Brown and Black.
JUMP BUMP He jumped. He bumped.
FAST PAST He went past fast.
WENT TENT SENT He went into the tent.
I sent him out of the tent.
WET GET Two dogs get wet.
HELP YELP They yelp for help.
HILL WILL Will went up hill.
WILL HILL STILL Will is up hill still.
FATHER MOTHER SISTER BROTHER
That one is my other brother.
My brothers read a little bit.
Little words like If and it.
My father can read big words, too.
Like CONSTANTINOPLE and TIMBUKTU
SAY SAY What does this say?
seehemewepatpup pop
hethreetreebee
tophopstop
Ask me tomorrow but not today.


Fox
Socks
Box
Knox

Knox in box.
Fox in socks.

Knox on fox in socks in box.

Socks on Knox and Knox in box.

Fox in socks on box on Knox.

Chicks with bricks come.
Chicks with blocks come.
Chicks with bricks and blocks and clocks come.

Look, sir.  Look, sir.  Mr. Knox, sir.
Let's do tricks with bricks and blocks, sir.
Let's do tricks with chicks and clocks, sir.

First, I'll make a quick trick brick stack.
Then I'll make a quick trick block stack.

You can make a quick trick chick stack.
You can make a quick trick clock stack.

And here's a new trick, Mr. Knox....
Socks on chicks and chicks on fox.
Fox on clocks on bricks and blocks.
Bricks and blocks on Knox on box.

Now we come to ticks and tocks, sir.
Try to say this Mr. Knox, sir....

Clocks on fox tick.
Clocks on Knox tock.
Six sick bricks tick.
Six sick chicks tock.

Please, sir.  I don't like this trick, sir.
My tongue isn't quick or slick, sir.
I get all those ticks and clocks, sir, 
mixed up with the chicks and tocks, sir.
I can't do it, Mr. Fox, sir.

I'm so sorry, Mr. Knox, sir.

Here's an easy game to play.
Here's an easy thing to say....

New socks.
Two socks.
Whose socks?
Sue's socks.

Who sews whose socks?
Sue sews Sue's socks.

Who sees who sew whose new socks, sir?
You see Sue sew Sue's new socks, sir.

That's not easy, Mr. Fox, sir.

Who comes? ...
Crow comes.
Slow Joe Crow comes.

Who sews crow's clothes?
Sue sews crow's clothes.
Slow Joe Crow sews whose clothes?
Sue's clothes.

Sue sews socks of fox in socks now.

Slow Joe Crow sews Knox in box now.

Sue sews rose on Slow Joe Crow's clothes.
Fox sews hose on Slow Joe Crow's nose.

Hose goes.
Rose grows.
Nose hose goes some.
Crow's rose grows some.

Mr. Fox!
I hate this game, sir.
This game makes my tongue quite lame, sir.

Mr. Knox, sir, what a shame, sir.

We'll find something new to do now.
Here is lots of new blue goo now.
New goo.  Blue goo.
Gooey.  Gooey.
Blue goo.  New goo.
Gluey. Gluey.

Gooey goo for chewy chewing!
That's what that Goo-Goose is doing.
Do you choose to chew goo, too, sir?
If, sir, you, sir, choose to chew, sir, 
with the Goo-Goose, chew, sir.
Do, sir.

Mr. Fox, sir, 
I won't do it.  
I can't say.  
I won't chew it.

Very well, sir.
Step this way.
We'll find another game to play.

Bim comes.
Ben comes.
Bim brings Ben broom.
Ben brings Bim broom.

Ben bends Bim's broom.
Bim bends Ben's broom.
Bim's bends.
Ben's bends.
Ben's bent broom breaks.
Bim's bent broom breaks.

Ben's band.  Bim's band.
Big bands.  Pig bands.

Bim and Ben lead bands with brooms.
Ben's band bangs and Bim's band booms.

Pig band!  Boom band!
Big band!  Broom band!
My poor mouth can't say that.  No, sir.
My poor mouth is much too slow, sir.

Well then... bring your mouth this way.
I'll find it something it can say.

Luke Luck likes lakes.
Luke's duck likes lakes.
Luke Luck licks lakes.
Luck's duck licks lakes.

Duck takes licks in lakes Luke Luck likes.
Luke Luck takes licks in lakes duck likes.

I can't blab such blibber blubber!
My tongue isn't make of rubber.

Mr. Knox.  Now come now.  Come now.
You don't have to be so dumb now....

Try to say this, Mr. Knox, please....

Through three cheese trees three free fleas flew.
While these fleas flew, freezy breeze blew.
Freezy breeze made these three trees freeze.
Freezy trees made these trees' cheese freeze.
That's what made these three free fleas sneeze.

Stop it!  Stop it!
That's enough, sir.
I can't say such silly stuff, sir.

Very well, then, Mr. Knox, sir.

Let's have a little talk about tweetle beetles....

What do you know about tweetle beetles?  Well...

When tweetle beetles fight, 
it's called a tweetle beetle battle.

And when they battle in a puddle, 
it's a tweetle beetle puddle battle.

AND when tweetle beetles battle with paddles in a puddle, 
they call it a tweetle beetle puddle paddle battle.

AND...

When beetles battle beetles in a puddle paddle battle 
and the beetle battle puddle is a puddle in a bottle...
...they call this a tweetle beetle bottle puddle paddle battle muddle.

AND...

When beetles fight these battles in a bottle with their paddles 
and the bottle's on a poodle and the poodle's eating noodles...
...they call this a muddle puddle tweetle poodle beetle noodle 
bottle paddle battle.

AND...

Now wait a minute, Mr. Socks Fox!

When a fox is in the bottle where the tweetle beetles battle 
with their paddles in a puddle on a noodle-eating poodle, 
THIS is what they call...

...a tweetle beetle noodle poodle bottled paddled 
muddled duddled fuddled wuddled fox in socks, sir!

Fox in socks, our game is done, sir.
Thank you for a lot of fun, sir.


#########I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew




Left foot, Left foot
Right foot, Right.
Feet in the morning.
Feet at night.
Left foot, Left foot, Left foot, Right.
Wet foot, Dry foot.
High foot, Low foot.
Front feet, Back feet.
Red feet, Black feet.
Left foot, Right foot.
Feet, Feet, Feet.
How many, many
feet you meet.
Slow feet, Quick feet.
Trick feet, Sick feet.
Up feet, Down feet.
Here come clown feet.
Small feet, Big feet.
Here come pig feet.
His feet, Her feet.
Fuzzy fur feet.
In the house,
and on the street
how many, many
feet you meet.
Up in the air feet,
Over a chair feet.
More and more feet
Twenty-four feet
Here come
more and more…………..
……….and more feet!
Left foot. Right foot.
Feet. Feet. Feet.
Oh, how many
feet you meet!”




#####I Can Lick 30 Tigers Today! and Other Stories


Oh, the wonderful things Mr. Brown can do!
He can go like a cow.
He can go Moo Moo.
Mr. Brown can do it.
How about you?

He can go like a bee.
Mr. Brown can Buzz.
How about you?
Can you go Buzz Buzz.

He can go like a cork...
Pop Pop Pop.

He can go like house feet.
Klopp Klopp Klopp.

He can go Eek Eek like a squeaky shoe.

He can go like a rooter...
Cock-a-Doodle-Doo.

He can go like an owl...
Hoo Hoo.

Eek Eek
Eek Eek
Cock-a-Doodle-Doo
Hoo Hoo Hoo Hoo
How about you?

He can go like the rain...
Dibble Dibble Dibble Dopp.
Dibble Dibble Dibble Dibble.
Dopp Dopp Dopp.

He can go like a train.
Choo Choo Choo Choo.

Oh, the wonderful things Mr. Brown can do!
Moo Moo
Buzz Buzz
Pop Pop Pop
Eek Eek
Hoo Hoo
Klopp Klopp Klopp
Dibble Dibble
Dopp Dopp
Cock-a-Doodle-Doo
Mr. Brown can do it.
How about you?

Mr. Brown can Whisper Whisper.
...very soft very high...
...like the soft, soft whisper of a butterfly.
Maybe you can, too.
I think you ought to try.

He can go like a horn...
Blurp Blurp.
...like a big cat drinking.
Slurp Slurp.
He can go like a clock.
He can Tick.
He can Tock.
He can go like a hand on a door...
Knock Knock.
Tick Tock.
Tick Tock.
Knock Knock Knock.

Oh, the wonderful things Mr. Brown can do!
Blurp Blurp
Slurp Slurp
Cock-a-Doodle-Doo
Knock Knock Knock
and Hoo Hoo Hoo

He and even Sizzle Sizzle.
He can do that, too, like an egg in a frying pan.
How about you?

Mr. Brown is smart, as smart as they come!
He can do a hippopotamus chewing gum!
Grum Grum.
Grum Grum.
Grum Grum Grum.

Mr. Brown is so smart he can even do this Pip!
He can even make a noise like a goldfish kiss!

Boom Boom Boom.
Mr. Brown is a wonder!
Boom Boom Boom!
Mr. Brown makes thunder!
He makes Lighnting!
Splatt Splatt Splatt!
And it's very, very hard to make a noise like that.

Oh, the wonderful things Mr. Brown can do!
Moo Moo
Buzz Buzz
Pop Pop Pop
Eek Eek
Hoo Hoo
Klopp Klopp Klopp
Dibble Dibble
Dopp Dopp
Cock-a-Doodle-Doo
Grum Grum
Grum Grum
Choo Choo Choo
Boom Boom
Splatt Splatt
Tick Tick Tock
Sizzle Sizzle
Blurp Blurp
Knock Knock Knock
A Slurp and a Whisper and a Fish Kiss, too.
Pip!
Mr. Brown can do it.
How about you?


At the far end of town
where the Grickle-grass grows
and the wind smells slow-and-sour when it blows
and no birds ever sing excepting old crows...
is the Street of the Lifted Lorax.
And deep in the Grickle-grass, some people say,
if you look deep enough you can still see, today,
where the Lorax once stood
just as long as it could
before somebody lifted the Lorax away.
What was the Lorax?
And why was it there?
And why was it lifted and taken somewhere
from the far end of town where the Grickle-grass grows?
The old Once-ler still lives here.
Ask him. He knows.
You won't see the Once-ler.
Don't knock at his door.
He stays in his Lerkim on top of his store.
He lurks in his Lerkim, cold under the roof,
where he makes his own clothes
out of miff-muffered moof.
And on special dank midnights in August,
he peeks
out of the shutters
and sometimes he speaks
and tells how the Lorax was lifted away.
He'll tell you, perhaps...
if you're willing to pay.

On the end of a rope
he lets down a tin pail
and you have to toss in fifteen cents
and a nail
and the shell of a great-great-great-
grandfather snail.
Then he pulls up the pail,
makes a most careful count
to see if you've paid him
the proper amount.
Then he hides what you paid him
away in his Snuvv,
his secret strange hole
in his gruvvulous glove.
Then he grunts, "I will call you by Whisper-ma-Phone,
for the secrets I tell you are for your ears alone." 
SLUPP!
Down slupps the Whisper-ma-Phone to your ear
and the old Once-ler's whispers are not very clear,
since they have to come down
through a snergelly hose,
and he sounds
as if he had
smallish bees up his nose.
"Now I'll tell you,"he says, with his teeth sounding gray,
"how the Lorax got lifted and taken away...

external image s_lorax1.jpg
external image s_lorax1.jpg


It all started way back...
such a long, long time back...
Way back in the days when the grass was still green
and the pond was still wet
and the clouds were still clean,
and the song of the Swomee-Swans rang out in space...
one morning, I came to this glorious place.
And I first saw the trees!
The Truffula Trees!
The bright-colored tufts of the Truffula Trees!
Mile after mile in the fresh morning breeze.
And, under the trees, I saw Brown Bar-ba-loots
frisking about in their Bar-ba-loot suits
as they played in the shade and ate Truffula fruits.
From the rippulous pond
came the comfortable sound
of the Humming-Fish humming
while splashing around.

external image s_lorax2.jpg
external image s_lorax2.jpg


But those trees! Those trees!
Those Truffula Trees!
All my life I'd been searching
for trees such as these.
The touch of their tufts
was much softer than silk.
And they had the sweet smell
of fresh butterfly milk.
I felt a great leaping
of joy in my heart.
I knew just what I'd do!
I unloaded my cart.
In no time at all, I had built a small shop.
Then I chopped down a Truffula Tree with one chop.
And with great skillful skill and with great speedy speed,
I took the soft tuft, and I knitted a Thneed!
The instant I'd finished, I heard a ga-Zump!
I looked.
I saw something pop out of the stump
of the tree I'd chopped down. It was sort of a man.
Describe him?... That's hard. I don't know if I can.

external image s_lorax3.jpg
external image s_lorax3.jpg


He was shortish. And oldish.
And brownish. And mossy.
And he spoke with a voice
that was sharpish and bossy.
"Mister!" he said with a sawdusty sneeze,
"I am the Lorax. I speak for the trees.
I speak for the trees, for the trees have no tongues.
And I'm asking you, sir, at the top if my lungs"-
he was very upset as he shouted and puffed-
"What's that THING you've made out of my Truffula tuft?"
"Look, Lorax," I said."There's no cause for alarm.
I chopped just one tree. I am doing no harm.
I'm being quite useful. This thing is a Thneed.
A Thneed's a Fine-Something-That-All-People-Need!
It's a shirt. It's a sock. It's a glove, It's a hat.
But it has other uses. Yes, far beyond that.
You can use it for carpets. For pillows! For sheets!
Or curtains! Or covers for bicycle seats!"
The Lorax said,
"Sir! You are crazy with greed.
There is no one on earth
who would buy that fool Thneed!"

external image s_lorax4.jpg
external image s_lorax4.jpg


But the very next minute I proved he was wrong.
For, just at that minute, a chap came along,
and he thought the Thneed I had knitted was great.
He happily bought it for three ninety-eight
I laughed at the Lorax, "You poor stupid guy!
You never can tell what some people will buy."
"I repeat," cried the Lorax,
"I speak for the trees!"
"I'm busy," I told him.
"Shut up, if you please."
I rushed 'cross the room, and in no time at all,
built a radio-phone. I put in a quick call.
I called all my brothers and uncles and aunts
and I said, "Listen here! Here's a wonderful chance
for the whole Once-ler Family to get mighty rich!
Get over here fast! Take the road to North Nitch.
Turn left at Weehawken. Sharp right at South Stitch."
And, in no time at all,
in the factory I built,
the whole Once-ler Family
was working full tilt.
We were all knitting Thneeds
just as busy as bees,
to the sound of the chopping
of Truffula Trees. 

Then...
Oh! Baby! Oh!
How my business did grow!
Now, chopping one tree
at a time
was too slow.
So I quickly invented my Super-Axe-Hacker
which whacked off four Truffula Trees at one smacker.
We were making Thneeds
four times as fast as before!
And that Lorax?...
He didn't show up any more.
But the next week
he knocked
on my new office door.
He snapped, "I am the Lorax who speaks for the trees
which you seem to be chopping as fast as you please.
But I'm also in charge of the Brown Bar-ba-loots
who played in the shade in their Bar-ba-loot suits
and happily lived, eating Truffula Fruits.
"NOW... thanks to your hacking my trees to the ground,
there's not enought Truffula Fruit to go 'round.
And my poor Bar-ba-loots are all getting the crummies
because they have gas, and no food, in their tummies!
"They loved living here. But I can't let them stay.
They'll have to find food. And I hope that they may.
Good luck, boys," he cried. And he sent them away.
I, the old Once-ler, felt sad
as I watched them all go.
BUT...
business is business!
And business must grow
regardless of crummies in tummies, you know.

external image s_lorax5.jpg
external image s_lorax5.jpg


I meant no harm. I most truly did not.
But I had to grow bigger.So bigger I got.
I biggered my factory. I biggered my roads.
I biggered my wagons. I biggered the loads
of the Thneeds I shipped out. I was shipping them forth
to the South! To the East! To the West! To the North!
I went right on biggering... selling more Thneeds.
And I biggered my money, which everyone needs.
Then again he came back! I was fixing some pipes
when that old-nuisance Lorax came back with more gripes.
"I am the Lorax," he coughed and he whiffed.
He sneezed and he snuffled. He snarggled. He sniffed.
"Once-ler!" he cried with a cruffulous croak.
"Once-ler! You're making such smogulous smoke!
My poor Swomee-Swans... why, they can't sing a note!
No one can sing who has smog in his throat.
"And so," said the Lorax,
"-please pardon my cough-
they cannot live here.
So I'm sending them off.
"Where will they go?...
I don't hopefully know.
They may have to fly for a month... or a year...
To escape from the smog you've smogged up around here.


"What's more," snapped the Lorax. (His dander was up.)
"Let me say a few words about Gluppity-Glupp.
Your machine chugs on, day and night without stop
making Gluppity-Glupp. Also Schloppity-Schlopp.
And what do you do with this leftover goo?...
I'll show you. You dirty old Once-ler man, you!
"You're glumping the pond where the Humming-Fish hummed!
No more can they hum, for their gills are all gummed.
So I'm sending them off. Oh, their future is dreary.
They'll walk on their fins and get woefully weary
in search of some water that isn't so smeary."
And then I got mad.
I got terribly mad.
I yelled at the Lorax, "Now listen here, Dad!
All you do is yap-yap and say, 'Bad! Bad! Bad! Bad!'
Well, I have my rights, sir, and I'm telling you
I intend to go on doing just what I do!
And, for your information, you Lorax, I'm figgering
On biggering
and BIGGERING
andBIGGERING
and BIGGERING,
turning MORE Truffula Trees into Thneeds
which everyone, EVERYONE, EVERYONE needs!"
And at that very moment, we heard a loud whack!
From outside in the fields came a sickening smack
of an axe on a tree. Then we heard the tree fall.
The very last Truffula Tree of them all! 


No more trees. No more Thneeds. No more work to be done.
So, in no time, my uncles and aunts, every one,
all waved me good-bye. They jumped into my cars
and drove away under the smoke-smuggered stars.
Now all that was left 'neath the bad smelling-sky
was my big empty factory...
the Lorax...
and I.
The Lorax said nothing. Just gave me a glance...
just gave me a very sad, sad backward glance...
as he lifted himself by the seat of his pants.
And I'll never forget the grim look on his face
when he heisted himself and took leave of this place,
through a hole in the smog, without leaving a trace.
And all that the Lorax left here in this mess
was a small pile of rocks, with one word...
"UNLESS."
Whatever that meant, well, I just couldn't guess.

That was long, long ago.
But each day since that day
I've sat here and worried
and worried away.
Through the years, while my buildings
have fallen apart,
I've worried about it
with all of my heart.
"But now," says the Once-ler,
"Now that you're here,
the word of the Lorax seems perfectly clear.
UNLESS someone like you
cares a whole awful lot,
nothing is going to get better.
It's not.
"SO...
Catch!" calls the Once-ler.
He lets something fall.
"It's a Truffula Seed.
It's the last one of all!
You're in charge of the last of the Truffula Seeds.
And Truffula Trees are what everyone needs.
Plant a new Truffula.Treat it with care.
Give it clean water. And feed it fresh air.
Grow a forest. Protect it from axes that hack.
Then the Lorax
and all of his friends
may come back."


The time has come.

The time has come.
The time is now.

Just go. Go. GO!
I don't care how.

You can go by foot.
You can go by cow.
Marvin K. Mooney, will you please go now!

You can go on skates.
You can go on skis.
You can go in a hat. 
But please go. Please!

I don't care. 
You can go by bike. 
You can go on a Zike-Bike if you like.
If you like you can go in an old blue shoe.

Just go, go, GO!
Please do, do, DO!

Marvin K. Mooney, 
I don't care how. 
Marvin K. Mooney, 
Will you please GO NOW!

You can go on stilts.
You can go by fish.
You can go in a Crunk-Car if you wish.

If you wish you may go by lion's tail.
Or stamp yourself and go by mail.
Marvin K. Mooney!
Don't you know the time has come to go, Go, GO!

Get on your way!
Please, Marvin K.!
You might like going 
In a Zumble-Zay.

You can go by balloon...
... or broomstick.
OR
You can go by camel in a bureau drawer.

You can go by Bumble-Boat...
... or jet.
I don't care how you go.

Get yourself a Ga-Zoom.
You can go with a....... BOOM!
Marvin, Marvin, Marvin!
Will you leave this room!

Marvin K. Mooney!
I don't care HOW.
Marvin K. Mooney!
Will you please GO NOW!

I said GO and GO I meant...
The time had come.
SO... Marvin WENT.





#######Did I Ever Tell You How Lucky You Are?

########The Shape of Me and Other Stuff


Did you ever have the feeling there’s a WASKET in your BASKET? Or a NUREAU in your BUREAU?
Or a WOSET in your CLOSET?
Sometimes I feel quite CERTAIN there’s a JERTAIN in the CURTAIN.
Sometimes I have the feeling there’s a ZLOCK behind the CLOCK.
And that ZELF up on that SHELF! I have talked to him myself.
That’s the kind of house I live in. There’s a NINK in the SINK.
And a ZAMP in the LAMP. And they’re rather nice…I think.
Some of them are very friendly. Like the YOT in the POT.
But that YOTTLE in the BOTTLE, Some are friendly. Some are NOT.
I like the ZABLE on the TABLE. And the GHAIR under the CHAIR.
But that BOFA on the SOFA…Well, I wish he wasn’t there.
All those NUPBOARDS in the CUPBOARDS, they’re good fun to have about.
But that NOOTHGRUSH on my TOOTHBRUSH… him I could do without!
The only one I’m really scared of is that VUG under the RUG.
And that QUIMNEY up the CHIMNEY… I don’t like him. Not at all.
And it makes me sort of nervous when the ZALL scoots down the HALL.
But the YEPS on the STEPS  They’re great fun to have around. And so are the many, many friends that I have found. Like the TELLAR and the NELLAR and the GELLAR and the DELLAR and the BELLAR and the WELLAR and the ZELLAR in the CELLAR. 
 And the GEELING on the CEILING…
 …And the ZOWER in my SHOWER…
 And the ZILLOW on my PILLOW. I don’t care if you believe it. That’s the kind of house I live in. And I hope we never leave it.


##############Oh, the Thinks You Can Think!

#################I Can Read with My Eyes Shut!

##############Oh Say Can You Say?

#################Hunches in Bunches





On the last day of summer, ten hours before Fall…

my grandfather took me out to the wall.
 
For a while he stood silent. Then finally he said, with a very sad shake of his very old head, “As you know, on this side of the Wall we are Yooks.  On the far other side of this Wall live the Zooks.” 

Then my grandfather said, “It’s high time that you knew of the terribly horrible thing that Zooks do.  In every Zook house and in every Zook town every Zook eats his bread with the butter side down!” 

“But we Yooks, as you know, when we breakfast or sup, spread our bread,”  Grandpa said, “with the butter side up.  That’s the right, honest way!”  Grandpa gritted his teeth. “So you can’t trust a Zook who spreads bread underneath! Every Zook must be watched! He has kinks in his soul!  That’s why, as a youth, I made watching my goal, watching Zooks for the Zook-Watching Border Patrol!

In those day, of course, the Wall wasn’t so high and I could look any Zook square in the eye. 

If he dared to come close I could give him a twitch with my tough tufted prickely Snick-Berry Switch.

For a while that worked fine.  All the Zooks stayed away and our country was safe.  Then one terrible day a very rude Zook by the name of VanItch snuck up and slingshotted my Snick-Berry Switch!

With my broken- off switch, with my head hung in shame, to the Chief lookeroo in great sorrow I came.  But our leader just smiled.  He said, “ You’re not to blame.  And those Zooks will be sorry they started this game. 

“We’ll dress you right up in a fancier suit!  We’ll give you a fancier slingshot to shoot!”  And he ordered the Boys in the Back Room to figger how to build me some sort of triple-sling jigger. 

With my Triple-Sling Jigger I sure felt much bigger. 

I marched to the Wall with great vim and great vigor, right up to VanItch with my hand on the trigger.  “I’ll have no more nonsense,”  I said with a frown, “from Zooks who eat bread with the butter side down!” 

VanItch looked quite sickly.  He ran off quite Quickly. 

I’m unhappy to say he came back the next day in a spiffy new suit with a big new machine, and he snarled as he said, looking frightfully mean, “You may fling those hard rocks with your Triple-Sling Jigger.  But I, also, now have my hand on a trigger! 

“My wonderful weapon, the Jigger-Rock Snatchem, will fling ‘em right back just as quick as we catch ‘em.  We’ll have no more nonsense.  We’ll take no more gupp from you Yooks who eat bread with th butter side up!”

“I have failed, sir,”  I sobbed as I made my report to the Chief Yookeroo in the headquarters fort.  He just laughed. “You’ve done nothing at all of the sort.  Our slingshots have failed.  That was old-fashioned stuff.  Slingshots, dear boy, are not modern enough. 

“All we need is some newfangled kind of gun.  My Boys in the Back Room have already begun to think up a walloping whiz-zinger one!  My Bright Boys are thinking.  They’re on the right track.  They’ll think one up quick and we’ll send you right back!” 

They thought up a great one!  They certainly did.  They thought up a gun called the Kick-a-Doo Powder and ant’s eggs and bees’ legs and dried-fried clam chowder.  And they carefully trained a real smart dog named Daniel to serve as our country’s first gun-toting spaniel. 

Then Daniel, the Kick-a-Poo Spaniel, and I marched back toward the Wall with our heads held up gigh while everyone cheered and their cheers filled the sky; “Fight! Fight for the Butter Side Up! Do or die!” 

Well…

We didn’t do.  And we didn’t quite die.  But we sure did get worsted, poor Daniel and I.  VanItch was there too! And he said, the old pig, “The Boys as in my Back Room invented this rig called the Eight-Nozzled, Elephant-Toted Boom-Blitz.  It shoots high-explosive sour cherry stone pits and will put your dumb Kick-a-Poo Kid on the fritz!”  Poor Daniel and I were scared out of our witz! 

Once more, by VanItch I was bested and beat.  Once again I limped home from the Wall in defeat.  I dragged and I sagged and my spirits were low, as low as I thought that they ever could go, when I heard a Boom-Bah! And a Diddle-dee-Dill!  And our Butter-Up Band marched up over the Hill! 

The Chief Yookeroo had sent them to meet me along with the Right-Side-Up Song Girls to greet me.  They sang:  “Oh, be faithful! Believe in thy butter!”  And they lifted my spirits right out of the gutter! 

“My boy”, smiled the Chief Yookeroo, “we’ve just voted and made you a general! You’ve been promoted.  Your pretty new uniform’s ready.  Get in it! The Big War is coming.  You’re going to begin it!  And what’s more, this time you are certain to win it. 

“My Boys in the Back Room have finally found how.  Just wait till you see what they’ve puttered up now!  In their great new machine you’ll fly over that Wall and clobber those Butter-Down Zooks one and all!” 

Those Boys in the Back Room sure knew how to putter! They made me a thing called the Utterly Sputter and I jumped aboard with my heart all aflutter and steered toward the land of the Upside-Down Butter. 

This machine was so modern, so frightfully new, no one knew quite exactly just what it would do! 

But it had several faucets that sprinkled Blue Goo which, somehow, would sprinkle the Zooks as I flew and gum up that upside-down butter they chew. 

I was racing pell-mell when I heard a voice yell, “If you sprinkle us Zooks, you’ll get sprinkled as well!” 

VanItch had a Sputter exactly like mine!  And he yelled, “My Blue-Gooer is working just fine!  And I’m here to say that if Yooks can goo Zooks, you’d better forget it. ‘Cause Zooks can goo Yooks!”

I flew right back home and, as you may have guessed, I was downright despondent, disturbed, and depressed.  And I saw, just as soon as I stepped back on land, so were all of the girls of the Butter-Up Band. 

The Chief Drum Majorette, Miz Yookie-Ann Sue, said, “That was a pretty sour flight that you flew.  And the Chief Yookeroo has been looking for you!”

I raced to his office.  The place was a sight.  “Have no fears,” said the Chief.  “Everything is all right.  My Bright Back Room Boys have been brighter than bright.  They’ve thought up a gadget that’s Newer than New.  It is filled with mysterious Moo-Lacka-Moo and can blow all those Zooks clear to Sala-ma-goo.  THEY’VE INVENTED THE BITSY BIG-BOY BOOMEROO! 

“You just run to the wall like a nice little man.  Drop this bomb on the Zooks just as fast as you can.  I have ordered all Yooks to stay safe underground while the Bitsy Big-Boy Boomeroo is around.” 

As I raced for that Wall, with the bomb in my hand, I noticed that every last Yook in our land was obeying our Chief Yookeroo’s grim command. 

They were all bravely marching, with banners aflutter, down a hole! For their country!  And Right-Side-Up Butter!

 That’s when Grandfather found me!  He grabbed me.  He said, “You should be down that hole!  And you’re up here instead!  But perhaps this is all for the better, somehow.  You will see me make history! RIGHT HERE! AND RIGHT NOW!

Grandpa leapt up that Wall with a lopulous leap and he clearedhis harse throat with a bopulous beep.  He screamed, “Here’s the end of that terrible town full of Zooks who eat bread with the butter side down!” 

And at the very instant we heard a klupp-klupp of feet on the Wall and old VanItch klupped up! The Boys in HIS Back Room had made him one too!  In his fist was another Big-Boy Boomeroo!  “I’ll blow you,” he yelled, “into pork and wee beans! I’ll butter-side-up you to small smithereens!”

“Grandpa!”  I shouted.  “Be careful! Oh, gee! Who’s going to drop it?  Will you…? Or will he…?

“Be patient,” said Grandpa. “We’ll see. We will see…”



###############You're Only Old Once!

#############I Am Not Going to Get Up Today!

################Oh, the Places You'll Go!




